README.md, before:

## Upvote

Upvote is a Reddit-esque web application that allows users to create posts, upvote and downvote posts, and comment on posts in a multi-threaded, nested list.

The project is built using Next.js with the /app router and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), and uses [Auth.js (formerly Next Auth)](https://authjs.dev/) for user authentication. The data is stored in a Postgres database, which is created and accessed with raw SQL queries using the `pg` package.

The project is a work in progress and is not yet complete.

## Features

- [x] View a list of posts
- [x] View a single post
- [x] Create a post
- [x] Upvote and downvote posts
- [x] Pagination of posts
- [x] Comment on posts
- [x] Nested comments (recursive lists)
- [x] User authentication

## Setup instructions

1. Fork the repository (check "copy the main branch only") and clone your fork to your local machine
2. Run `npm install`
3. Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add the following environment variables:
   - `DATABASE_URL` - the URL of your Postgres database (eg. the Supabase connection string)
   - `AUTH_SECRET` - the Next Auth secret string (this can be anything at all like a password, but keep it secret!)
   - `AUTH_GITHUB_ID` - the GitHub OAuth client ID (create yours in [Github developer settings](https://github.com/settings/developers)
   - `AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET` - the GitHub OAuth client secret (create this in [Github developer settings](https://github.com/settings/developers))
4. Create the database schema by running the SQL commands in `schema.sql` in your database (eg. by running the commands in Supabase Query Editor)
5. Run `npm run dev` to start the development server
6. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the site

## Potential future features

- [ ] User profiles
- [ ] Sorting posts by recent (date posted), top (most upvotes), and most controversial (most upvotes _and_ downvotes)
- [ ] User karma scores
- [ ] User badges / trophies (awards for achievements like number of posts, years on the site, etc.)
- [ ] User settings (eg. number of posts per page, theme, etc.)
- [ ] Moderation tools / reporting or flagging objectionable comments for removable by admins
- [ ] Searching posts (possibly using simple SQL LIKE '%some search%', or [Postgres text search](https://www.crunchydata.com/blog/postgres-full-text-search-a-search-engine-in-a-database))
- [ ] Subreddits (separate communities, that isn't just one big list of posts, that can be created by users)
- [ ] User notifications
- [ ] User private messaging
- [ ] User blocking
- [ ] User following
- [ ] User feed (posts from users you follow)
- [ ] User flair

PERSONAL NOTES

- my deployment stressed me out as I couldn't import my .env file for some reason. I added everything i thought i needed but it was still telling me that a log of some kinda would show me what the problem was but I had no log error. I ended up just restarting and making a new git developer app. I must haved copied something wrong somewhere in the original.

- fixed the page title to match post title. I used the metadata lesson and the below function on the postid page to help.

- the user only being able to vote once seemed to work without me changing anything? i added some code to my votes table that nicky suggested and explained but it didnt seem to hcange anything

- i have added an error and not found page for when you are not logged in

Commit message:

changed button colour on add post form

README.md, after:

## Upvote

Upvote is a Reddit-esque web application that allows users to create posts, upvote and downvote posts, and comment on posts in a multi-threaded, nested list.

The project is built using Next.js with the /app router and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), and uses [Auth.js (formerly Next Auth)](https://authjs.dev/) for user authentication. The data is stored in a Postgres database, which is created and accessed with raw SQL queries using the `pg` package.

The project is a work in progress and is not yet complete.

## Features

- [x] View a list of posts
- [x] View a single post
- [x] Create a post
- [x] Upvote and downvote posts
- [x] Pagination of posts
- [x] Comment on posts
- [x] Nested comments (recursive lists)
- [x] User authentication

## Setup instructions

1. Fork the repository (check "copy the main branch only") and clone your fork to your local machine
2. Run `npm install`
3. Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add the following environment variables:
   - `DATABASE_URL` - the URL of your Postgres database (eg. the Supabase connection string)
   - `AUTH_SECRET` - the Next Auth secret string (this can be anything at all like a password, but keep it secret!)
   - `AUTH_GITHUB_ID` - the GitHub OAuth client ID (create yours in [Github developer settings](https://github.com/settings/developers)
   - `AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET` - the GitHub OAuth client secret (create this in [Github developer settings](https://github.com/settings/developers))
4. Create the database schema by running the SQL commands in `schema.sql` in your database (eg. by running the commands in Supabase Query Editor)
5. Run `npm run dev` to start the development server
6. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the site

## Potential future features

- [ ] User profiles
- [ ] Sorting posts by recent (date posted), top (most upvotes), and most controversial (most upvotes _and_ downvotes)
- [ ] User karma scores
- [ ] User badges / trophies (awards for achievements like number of posts, years on the site, etc.)
- [ ] User settings (eg. number of posts per page, theme, etc.)
- [ ] Moderation tools / reporting or flagging objectionable comments for removable by admins
- [ ] Searching posts (possibly using simple SQL LIKE '%some search%', or [Postgres text search](https://www.crunchydata.com/blog/postgres-full-text-search-a-search-engine-in-a-database))
- [ ] Subreddits (separate communities, that isn't just one big list of posts, that can be created by users)
- [ ] User notifications
- [ ] User private messaging
- [ ] User blocking
- [ ] User following
- [ ] User feed (posts from users you follow)
- [ ] User flair

_PERSONAL NOTES_

- my deployment stressed me out as I couldn't import my .env file for some reason. I added everything i thought i needed but it was still telling me that a log of some kinda would show me what the problem was but I had no log error. I ended up just restarting and making a new git developer app. I must haved copied something wrong somewhere in the original.

- fixed the page title to match post title. I used the metadata lesson and the below function on the postid page to help.

- the user only being able to vote once seemed to work without me changing anything? i added some code to my votes table that nicky suggested and explained but it didnt seem to hcange anything

- i have added an error and not found page for when you are not logged in and made a button to return to page
